# Implementation of the CKY algorithm

Content:

- [ Authors ](#authors)
- [Description](#description)
- [Operating System and Programming Language](#operating-system-and-programming-language)
- [ Instructions to run the code ](#instructions-to-run-the-code)

 ## Authors
- Santiago Gómez Ospina
- Miguel Ángel Ortiz Puerta

## Description

This code implements the CKY algorithm to determine whether a string can be generated by a context-free grammar in Chomsky Normal Form. It reads the grammar’s production rules and a set of strings, then uses a dynamic table to check if the string can be derived from the start symbol. If the start symbol is found in the cell covering the entire string, the string belongs to the grammar; otherwise, it doesn’t.

 ## Operating System and Programming Language
 - Operating System
   Windows 11 pro
   
   Linux ubuntu 20.04 LTS
   
 - Programming Language
   
   Python 3.12.3


 ## Instructions to run the code

 #### Assumptions

 You may assume the grammar is in CNF and the capital letter ‘S’ is its initial symbol. Assume nonterminals are capital letters and terminals are not upper-case letters.

 #### Running 
 - To run code, you must write the input in the folllowing order, also, each time you enter what is requested in the line, press enter and continue typing:
   
   1. Number of cases
   
   2. Two numbers k and m in a single line separated by a blank space. Here, k is the number of
   nonterminals and m is the number of strings to be analyzed.

   3. Write your grammar productions, one line for each production and every production must follow the rules of Chomsky normal form. with the following format:

    < **nonterminal** > < **derivation alternatives of the nonterminal separated by blank spaces** >

   4. Finally, m lines each one with a string to test.

 - Examples of inputs:

   ```
   1
   5 5
   S AB BA SS AC BD
   C SB
   D SA
   A a
   B b
   aabbab
   aabb
   ab
   aa
   b
   ```
   ```
   2
   4 3
   S AB AC SS
   C SB
   A a
   B b
   abab
   aaabbbaabbab
   aabab
   2 6
   S AS b
   A a
   ab
   aaaaaaaa
   aaaaaaaaaaab
   b
   bb
   abb
   ```
